Trial reels are a cheat code. They are
arguably the best feature that any
social networking app has ever given us
to grow our following, reach more
people, and go viral with little to no
risk on our end. And so, in today's
episode, I'm going to share with you a
complete breakdown on how to grow on
Instagram using trial reels. First and
foremost, we need to lay the foundation
of what are trial reels, how do you use
them, why did Instagram create them, and
how should you use them, which is
actually different than why Instagram
created them. But I know that some of
you know that already. So, I'm going to
put a number on the screen right here
right now. Fast forward to that point in
the video if you already know what trial
reels are and you already know why they
were created and you just want to know
how to use them to grow. Now, for those
of you who don't know what they are,
they were created in December of 2024 as
a way to post reels that would only be
shown to nonfollowers. They would not be
shown to anyone who already follows you.
And the reason that Instagram created
such a feature is so that you could
test, so that you could trial different
ideas, different hooks, different
content that you were too nervous or shy
or scared to post to your normal feed,
which would be seen by your normal
followers. Basically, they wanted to
create a low pressure environment where
strangers could see your content, so you
didn't have to worry about the cringe
embarrassment of someone you know seeing
your reels. Now, that was Instagram's
intention, but very quickly, us
marketers figured out, hey, this is a
free unlimited attempt to reach new
people. This is a kind of reel that is
guaranteed to help me grow my audience
because it's only going to be reaching
new followers. It's kind of like free
advertising. And so, very early on,
myself and many other Instagram experts
began telling and teaching y'all to post
as many trial reels as possible. if
they're giving us the opportunity to
reach new people, well then we might as
well spam the heck out of our trial
reels and reach as many new people as we
can because I and many others saw the
writing on the wall, which is that if we
are all posting dozens of trial reels
and reaching dozens of new people every
day, well then eventually Instagram's
going to make some changes. And so over
the course of 2025, Instagram has made
some changes. One of the first major
changes that Instagram made is they
created a cap or a limit on how many
trial reels you could post per day. When
trial reels were first released, there
was no cap. You could post as many as
you wanted. But now in Q4 of 2025, there
are limits in place. Unfortunately,
Instagram hasn't told us what those
limits are. And even worse, the limit
varies on each account. Some accounts
can still post an unlimited amount of
trial reels. Congratulations, you're one
of the lucky ones. Some accounts on the
opposite end of the spectrum, however,
are limited to only five trial reels per
day. And if they post more than five
trial reels per day, they are cut off
for the next 30 days. I know that sounds
crazy. And yes, they can still post to
their feed. They can still post stories.
But if they post more than five trial
reels in a 24-hour period, then without
any preemptive warning, Instagram will
block them from posting trial reels
again for the next 30 days. Maybe most
unfortunate of all is that there's no
way to know what your limit is until you
reach it or even exceed it, thus
breaking the limit and thus getting
yourself blocked from future trial
reels. So, spoiler alert before we even
get into best practices of how to use
trial reels to grow on Instagram. If you
don't know what your limit is, if you
haven't ever gotten a strike before,
then I would recommend posting no more
than five trial reels per day. But we're
getting ahead of ourselves because
before we talk about best practices, I
need to let you know about the other
change that has been made to trial reels
over the course of this year, which is
that they no longer allow duplicate
trial reels. Or to say it more
precisely, they allow duplicate trial
reels. You could post the same exact
reel as a trial reel of 50 times if you
wanted to, but only the first one will
get views. What that means is that
essentially the algorithm is able to
detect if it is the exact same video
posted more than once and if it is the
second, third, fourth, whatever time
that I have posted the exact same trial
reel, then that subsequent repeat will
not get views or it will not get as many
views. Typically, we see it capped at
just a few hundred or maybe a few
thousand views max, but its potential to
go viral is significantly limited. So,
with all of that being said, I have four
tips for you to use trial reels to grow
on Instagram. because even despite these
limitations, they are still one of the
most powerful tools for reaching a new
audience and thus growing your following
and engagement on Instagram. Rule number
one is what I mentioned just a few
minutes ago, which is that you should
post just below your daily limit. If you
don't know what your daily limit is,
then it's best to post four to five
trial reels per day. And I do recommend
getting just below that limit. I don't
want you to just post one or two. If
possible, I want you to try to post just
below, right up to the very knife's edge
of whatever your account's limit is
because again, this feature is one of
the best features for reaching new
people. And so, we might as well get the
most juice possible from the squeeze.
But of course, the question that is
likely going through your head right now
and maybe has been going through your
head for the last few minutes is how how
are we supposed to post that many trial
reels per day? There are probably a lot
of people watching today's episode who
when I said five trial reels per day is
the limit, you thought, who the heck is
posting more than five per day. Well,
your boy tried once to post 100 in a
day. Long story short, it failed. I did
an entire episode breaking down what
happened when I tried to post 100 in a
day. In fact, that was how we initially
discovered that there even was a cap in
the first place because no one knew that
there was a limitation. I found that
limitation. But back to the most
important question. How are you supposed
to even post five trial reels per day on
top of your normal feed post? Here's
how. Number one, re-upload reels that
you have posted to your feed in the
past. Trial reels that are duplicate, as
in I posted this trial reel today and I
posted the exact same one tomorrow,
those will be limited in terms of views.
But if I post a reel today and then I
post the exact same content as a trial
reel tomorrow, the trial reel will not
be limited in terms of its views. and
the one that I posted to my feed the day
before will also not be limited.
Basically, there are different
algorithms that look at your normal feed
post versus your trial reels. So, my
best practice is to take all of your
past reels and repost them as trial
reels. Now, when trial reels first came
out, the best practice that I
recommended was not taking all of your
past reels, but only your best reels
from the past. maybe the ones that got
the most views or the ones that got the
most followers and re-uploading those as
trial reels, not once but dozens of
times. Now, because of the new
limitations, I recommend taking all of
your past reels and uploading them just
a single time as a trial reel.
Hopefully, you've been posting
consistently on Instagram for the last
few months and you have dozens, if not
hundreds, maybe even thousands of reels
that you have previously posted that now
can be re-uploaded as trial reels. You
would be surprised how often I have a
reel that just kind of does okay or
maybe even below average on my normal
feed, but then when I re-upload it as a
trial reel 4 months later, it suddenly
does well, gets a lot of views, maybe
even goes viral. So, don't judge your
content just because it didn't perform
as great on your feed. Take every reel
that you have previously posted, and as
long as it's still relevant, as long as
it's still somewhat timely, post it as a
trial reel. The second way that you're
going to be able to post more trial
reels without increasing your energy or
effort is from now on, whenever you
create a reel in Instagram and you save
it to your Instagram drafts, I want you
to tap on those three dots and then
duplicate it. Basically, it'll make an
exact copy with all the same edits, the
same caption and everything. And even
before you post it to your feed, I want
you to post the duplicated version to
your trial reels. Basically, it's the
same idea that we were just talking
about with re-uploading your reels from
the past, but now we're talking about
reels that you are going to post in the
future. So, before you even post them,
post them as a trial reel. The next
strategy for being able to increase your
output of trial reels is by making
slight modifications. Let's say I took a
trending audio in Instagram and I
recorded myself lip-s syncing that viral
soundbite and I saved it to my drafts
and I was going to post it tomorrow
morning. Well, of course, before I do
that, I'm going to duplicate it and post
it as a trial reel. But even before you
post it as a trial reel, I would
recommend duplicating it multiple times
so you have like three or four different
copies of the exact same reel and then
make slight modifications. Now,
Instagram hasn't made it exactly clear
on how much has to be modified.
According to some inside that I have
gained, they primarily are looking at
the actual video content and primarily
for the first six or seven seconds. So,
maybe you're going to take that viral
sound bite and you're going to re-record
it in another setting or a different
video or a different take. Maybe you're
going to edit the text on screen and try
out some different hooks or try out some
different text. Maybe you're going to
re-edit the actual cutting of the video
and the pacing for the first six or
seven seconds just so that it's a
different slightly modified version of
the same content, but not an exact
recreation. That should be another way
that you can create more trial reels and
also a way for you to test different
languaging, different verbiage,
different editing styles, different
hooks on essentially the same video.
Speaking of testing, that was why trial
reels were created in the first place.
They were created as a way to have a low
pressure environment for you to
experiment, have some fun, try a new
style, try a new format, just play
around with Instagram and create content
that maybe is different from what you
normally do. It's maybe outside of your
comfort zone, outside of your box. And
so, I want you to do that with trial
reels. I want you to yap. I want you to
make FaceTime content where you're just
talking to your phone and there's not
really a plan. There's not really a
script. There's not really any editing.
You just kind of have a subject you want
to talk about and you're talking about
it. I want you to give yourself
permission to experiment, to fail, to
try out new things, to be uncomfortable,
to cringe, to post things that you look
back on, you're like, "What the heck was
I thinking?" I want you to give yourself
permission to do that on trial reels
because that's why they were created and
that will allow you to post more trial
reels without stressing so much over the
creation of each one.
I envy you and I'm not kidding. When I
first got started in online business
back in 2017, you needed like a dozen
different softwares and online services
and website subscriptions just to have
this whole online business thing work.
Because the reality is just posting on
social media does not equal having an
online business. You need to get your
followers off of social media. You need
to build an email list. You need to have
a website. You need to have funnels. You
need to have email marketing. And like I
said, when I was first getting started,
it was a lot of work to even figure out
what tools and softwares you needed, let
alone the cost of how expensive having
all of these different monthly
subscriptions was. In fact, just a few
months ago, I found that I had been
paying for one of these subscriptions
for the last like eight years, and I
wasn't even using it. But now, I'm
excited to introduce today's video
sponsor, HighLevel, which is really an
all-in-one platform. It is truly a jack
of all trades when it comes to building
an online business. It has all the
different tools that you could ever
need, but the cool thing is is that it
can grow with you. It's kind of like
getting access to this big giant toolbox
that has every tool you could ever need.
But what's nice is you're not shown all
of them all at once. You're not forced
to learn, let alone use every single
tool, let alone pay for every single
tool. So high level can really grow with
you. If you're someone who's ready to
start building your email list, who
wants to start dipping their toe in
automations, who wants to start building
an actual business beyond just posting
on Instagram, check out High Level today
and I'll put the link down in the show
notes below. Two final strategies for
you to increase your output of trial
reels is number one, I recommend once
per day posting a trial reel that is
saying in the trial reel that it is a
trial reel. I've seen a lot of creators
having success with this recently where
essentially they are taking a B-roll
video of themselves and they're just
adding some text on the screen that is
immediately saying, "This is a trial
reel, which means you don't follow me
yet. I am trying to reach." And then
they list the exact demographics and
target audience of the people they're
trying to reach. Maybe they briefly
describe their account. They say, you
know, if you want no BS rock climbing
tips, I'm your gal. Hit that follow
button. It's a direct call out that,
hey, this is a trial reel. If you're
seeing this, it's because you don't
follow me. Hi, here's me. Here's what I
do. Consider following me. It's a really
great way to use trial reels because you
know that this reel is not going to
reach, aka annoy, your existing
followers. Because if your existing
followers saw that, they'd be like, "Why
would I engage with this? I already
follow her." But if your new potential
followers are seeing that, it's going to
be a great way for them to discover you.
So, for at least one of your daily trial
reels, make the content about the fact
that this is a trial reel and ask people
to follow you. And then the final way
that you're going to be able to post
more trial reels is another idea of what
you could post as a trial reel, and that
is on niche or niche relevant Instagram
stories. Oftentimes on our Instagram
stories, we just kind of yap. We just
kind of talk and post about things that
maybe we wouldn't normally post to our
feed. They're not as polished. They're
not as well thought out. They're kind of
off-the-cuff ideas, but they're still
relevant to our industry. They're still
relevant to our business and our
account. And so, we post those on our
Instagram stories. What I want you to do
now is I want you to post those as
reals. Whether you have to find them in
your Instagram archive or hopefully you
have them saved to your camera roll
doesn't really make a difference, but
essentially you've already done the work
to create these Instagram stories. So
just put them into one consecutive
Instagram reel and post it as a trial
reel. All of that was tip number one,
which was posting just below your daily
limit of trial reels whenever possible.
So tip number two for using trial reels
to grow on Instagram is don't ever
upgrade your trial reels to the normal
feed. Right before you post your trial
reel, there's going to be a setting that
you can turn on that will automatically
upgrade your trial reel from a trial to
a normal onfeed reel, thus making it
visible to your followers after a set
amount of time. Additionally, if you are
looking at your trial reels and seeing
how they're performing, you could choose
to upgrade them and show them on your
feed in the future if you wanted to. I
recommend not doing this the majority of
the time. The only real circumstance
where I think it might be worth it to
upgrade the trial reel and show it on
your normal feed is if it's already
going viral. It's already far
outperforming your average content.
Because unfortunately, if I were to post
a trial reel on Tuesday and then I
upgrade it to my feed on Thursday, it
does not get a refresh in the algorithm
on Thursday. It does not show up in my
followers feeds as if I posted it on
Thursday. it shows up or probably it's
not going to show up, but if it did show
up, it would show up as if it was posted
on Tuesday. It gets buried down on your
profile. So, if I posted four other
times between the trial reel on Tuesday
and upgrading it on Thursday, well, then
it would show up as the fifth most
recent post in my feed, and it would be
significantly less likely to get any
views. So, even if it's going viral, I
usually recommend just leaving it as a
trial reel. Set it and forget it. Don't
worry about upgrading it to the feed.
Strategy number three for using trial
reels to grow on Instagram is use DM
automation. DM automation is that thing
where someone says, "Comment the word
blank and I'll send you blank. Comment
the word guide and I'll send you the
links to my free rock climbing guide."
Posts that utilize DM automation are
some of the most commented on, most
engaged, most liked, and most viewed
content on all of Instagram. And
especially if you're a brand or business
owner, someone who's trying to get
emails and signups and customers, then
DM automation is a non-negotiable for
you. And a lot of people are familiar
with using it on their Instagram stories
or their normal Instagram feed. But not
many people are aware that you can
actually use DM automation with your
trial reels. Here's how. Step number
one, just set up a new flow in ManyHat
just like you normally would for
creating any other comment to DM
automation. Then step two, when you are
selecting which post you want the
trigger to be applied to, I want you to
select the pro feature which is next
post or reel. By doing this, if the next
post that you make is a trial reel, the
automation will be automatically and
instantly added to that trial reel. So,
anyone who comments the keyword on that
trial reel, even though they're not
following you, they will instantly get
the direct message with the guide, the
thing, the link, or whatever it is. Then
from there, step three is you could just
post your trial reel. But a pro tip, you
could use an additional feature within
many chat, which will actually check if
the people are following you first.
Here's basically the flow. You post the
trial reel and at the end of your trial
reel, you say, "Comment the word recipe
for my new cake recipe." Okay? Now,
you're getting a bunch of comments with
the word recipe. These comments,
however, are coming from people who do
not follow you. They are engaged. They
just watched your reel, they liked it,
and now they left a comment, but they
don't follow you yet. When they comment
that keyword, the first direct message
that they receive from your account will
not have the recipe. Instead, ManyHat
can automatically detect that they are
not following you and it can prompt them
saying, "In order to get the full
recipe, please consider following or
whatever you want it to specifically
say." And then they will only receive
that actual recipe that they originally
wanted if they press follow. This is an
absolute gamecher for converting the
people who are engaging with your trial
reels into people who are actually going
to become followers. I'll put my link
and discount code so you can get a month
of ManyHat for free down in the show
notes below. Or you can go and check out
an episode that I did a few weeks ago
with a full in-depth breakdown of how to
use DM automation. What is it? Why is it
so helpful? Why have I been talking
about for the last 5 years, literally
not just the last 5 years of today's
episode, but I've been talking about
this since 2020. So definitely go back
and check out that episode if you want
to learn a little bit more about ManyHat
and DM automation. And then my fourth
and final tip for growing with trial
reels is don't sweat the small stuff.
And I know that's not the sexy tip. I
know that's not like groundbreaking or
revolutionary, but don't sweat how many
views you are or are not getting. It's
very likely that your first 50, your
first 50 trial reels will not go viral.
They're not going to reach a lot of
people. And you're going to write a
message angrily on my future podcast
episodes saying, "Brock, trial reels
don't work. They're broken. They've
never worked for me. I only got 10
views." And then I'll ask you, "How many
did you post?" And you'll say, "Well, I
posted four only. I only posted 17."
Keep posting them. You never know which
one's going to go viral. I can't tell
you how many times I've even had this
thought myself of like maybe trial reels
are dead. Maybe it's changed. Maybe
they've updated the algorithm. And
there's just no way to get views with
your trial reels anymore. And then I'm
just going to keep posting. I just keep
posting them. I keep posting my four to
five a day. and then all of a sudden
when I least expect it, boom, I get
400,000 views on a single trial reel.
So, don't get bogged down by low
performance or low engagement. On the
bright side, no one knows. No one sees
it. No one can see how many views your
trial reels are getting. No one can see
how much engagement your trial reels are
getting. They're only getting seen by
strangers anyway. So, don't worry about
it. Just keep posting. Just keep
posting. Just keep posting your trial
reels. Okay? And before you go and post
a trial reel, don't forget to hit that
like button, hit the subscribe button,
and I will see you in next week's
episode.